# volteoLab
Computer program for 2D toppling modeling.

The computer program for 2D toppling modeling, named volteoLab, allows interpret the toppling mode of failure of a set of rock-blocks at road slopes; all of these by analyzing under a continuum frame taking into account the contact and gravitational forces of the blocks. The analysis is done with the limit equilibrium method proposed Liu et al. (2008) [1], which starts from the static method given in Goodman and Bray (1976) [2]. In this method, the calculation of forces, such as the weight of each rock-block, where the base frictional force is also taken into account. On the other hand, it is used the concept of transfer coefficient (ψ) propossed by Liu et al. (2008) [1]. Under this concept, there is relation of the gravitational force components with the spatial location of each block, those against a strategic reference block (called crest block [1] and with a location index of m), where the physical meaning divides the slope of analysis in two zones: Shear and Crown zones. With the transference coefficient and the location of the crown block, it is possible to identify vulnerable parts in the slope, and especially it is possible to have a numeric value of another variable, which will define the global stability of the slope, this that is a horizontal force at the foot of the slope called here nailing force (P). If this force is negative, the slope is stable, and if the force is positive, the slope is unstable. Besides this, the order of magnitude of this force will tell how stable of unstable is the slope to this failure mode, and from this force a stabilization measure may proposed. The software is restricted to road slopes because of the simple geometry the slope cuts have in road works.

Keywords: Rock mass, highway, computer program, toppling failure mode.

References.
[1] Liu, C.H., M.B. Jaksa and A.G. Meyers, 2009. A transfer coefficient method for rock slope toppling. Canadian Geotechnical Journal, Vol.46: 1-9. 
[2] Goodman, R.E. and J.W. Bray, 1976. Toppling of rock slopes. Proceedings of the Specialty Conference on Rock Engineering for Foundations and Slopes, Boulder Colorado (Aug): 201-234. 
